Medina Investment Collaboration and Association Constitution 

Article I - Definition of Medina Investment Collaboration and Association 
The Medina Investment Collaboration and Association (MICA) is a non-profit organization that is run through Medina High School and its affiliates. Our primary, target goal is to raise and donate capital to charities as voted upon by the organization. Funds are raised through means of a membership fee, fundraising, and investing. 

Article II - Officer Positions
There are four main officer positions in The Medina Investment Collaboration and Association. These four positions oversee the transaction of funds and the investment portfolio together. 
Section One - Officer Positions and Definitions

President - The overall manager of the funds and stock portfolio. The President also serves as the head of the board of directors. The President is the voice and face of the organization and acts as spokesman, attending to all duties that that implies.
Vice-President - The vice-president position works alongside the President in close advisement. In the absence of the President, the vice-president takes over responsibilities that would otherwise be attended to by the President. 
Treasurer - This position is in charge of fund management. They organize fundraising events and stock trades. The treasurer works with the President and vice-president closely to achieve the goals of The Medina Collaboration and Association.
Secretary - Medina Investment Collaboration Association has a large amount of paperwork with regards to many things such as meeting agendas and stock trades. The Secretary is in charge of confirming and organizing paperwork and events. 
Section Two - Officer Qualifications
Subpoint (A) Overall Qualifications -
To run for an officer position an applicant must meet the following requirements

An overall GPA of 3.5 is mandatory. (If a candidate does not have the required GPA, they have the option to explain why. If the reason is accepted the requested GPA can be waived)
Must have had full membership for at least 18 months and demonstrated strong dedication to the organization.
Must be able to demonstrate advanced knowledge of markets and the inner workings of the markets. 
Applicant must be at least a part-time student of Medina High School or its affiliates. 



Section Three - Officer Selection
A candidate for an officer position must first adhere to the qualifications as stated in Article Two, Section Two, sub point A. 
Subpoint (A) Officer Application - 
The potential candidate must first confirm their prerequisites then fill out an officer application for their selected position. The officer applications will be different for each candidate. The current officer will write the application for their position. A candidate's application will be evaluated by all current officers. If an applicant is deemed inadequate for an officer position they will be dismissed and will not be considered for an officer position.
Subpoint (B) Officer Campaigning - 
After an applicant has passed the application phase of officer selection, the candidate may campaign. There will be one month between the application phase and candidate voting. Candidates should campaign towards members of MICA since they will be the ones voting. Candidates may request to make speeches during any meeting, allowing a speech is at the discretion of the officers.   
Subpoint (C) Officer Voting - 
After the campaigning phase of officer selection, comes the vote. Every member of the Medina Investment Collaboration Association is given a single vote. Voting is conducted with write in votes. Officers are determined by simple popular vote.

Section Three - Officer Dismissal
Subpoint (A) Terms of Dismissal
An officer can be excused from office for any of the following reason

-Inappropriate use of funds
-Inappropriate attitude and/or actions in session or out of session
-Demonstrates lack of leadership for an extended period of time.
-Officer demonstrates an inadequate amount of skill necessary to run an organization such as this.
-Frequent excused or unexcused absences. 
Subpoint (B) Process of Dismissal 
If an Officer is deemed inadequate to lead the process of dismissal is as follows

A full-member, officer, or graduated officer of the organization brings the necessary terms of dismissal to the attention of the full organization
The organization votes on the dismissal of the officer. Two-thirds of the organization must vote in favor to have the accused dismissed for the action to take place.
If an officer is dismissed they are demoted to full-membership only. Dismissed officers may run for office the following year.   		




Article III - Sessions
Section One - Routine Meetings
The Medina Investment Collaboration Association will meet on a bi-weekly basis. The agenda of each meeting will be written by the President. Items to be discussed every meeting are the following: 

Current Stock trends
Standing of current investments
Presentations by members of stock picks
Voting on Stock picks
Voting on current stock holdings
       		 The president may add any more topics he/she wishes to discuss to the agenda. Any other member may request an item to be brought up, but it is at the discretion of the president to decide if the item should be brought up. 
Section Two - Emergency Meetings
Due to the nature of The Medina Investment Collaboration Association and its activities it may be necessary to call emergency meetings. Stock markets fluctuate greatly so the need to buy and sell stocks may become apparent, and the need for a vote will initiate. All attending members will be given their voting rights to decide on the future of certain investments. If a member is absent from an emergency meeting they will be contacted with the necessary information and have until the end of the meeting to respond or else their votes will not be counted.

Article IV - Membership
Section One - Membership Qualifications
An Applicant to The Medina Investment Collaboration Association must meet all of the following requirements

Must maintain at least a 3.0 GPA to be considered, Honors and AP courses will be taken into account differently dependent on difficulty.
Must be at least a sophomore at Medina High School or its affiliates
Must demonstrate knowledge of markets and how they work through a written test.
Each applicant will be examined by a panel made up of officers and previous year members to determine admittance. A basic voting system among the panel will decide the membership of the applicant or denial of membership.
Section Two - Membership Fees  
Each member of The Medina Investment Collaboration Association is required to pay a minimum fee of thirty dollars to The Medina Investment Collaboration Association Fund. All fees will be invested and eventually donated to a charity as chosen by the organization. 
Section Three - Membership Responsibilities 
As a member of The Medina investment Collaboration Association, one must fulfill certain responsibilities. 

Subpoint (A) Attendance 
As a full-member of The Medina Investment Collaboration Association, an attendance requirement is necessary to maintain member-club relations. A member of the club is allowed to miss three scheduled meetings as long as they have an excuse. Any extra missed meetings over the given three, with good cause for being excused, will be evaluated by the Vice President.
Subpoint (B) Stock Picks
The members of the Medina Investment Collaboration Association are the main section of the group. Thusly they are gifted with the main reason for the group which is investment. On occasion members will be asked to pick a stock or mutual fund that they are personally interested in. That member will do a thorough analysis of that stock and present their findings to the group. It is then at the groups discretion to decide if investment is the proper course with said stock or mutual fund. Failure to complete a stock analysis can result in termination at the decision of the Vice President. 
Subpoint (C) Voting
General members of the Medina Investment Collaboration Association will hold the majority of the vote. If a member is not present at the time of voting, the member is to be contacted and requested for a vote. The absent member has until the end of the meeting to come back with a vote. If the absent member does not respond then their vote is not counted. 

Article V - Fund Management 
The Medina Investment Association funds are to be managed by the Treasurer, any expenses not included in this article require the approval of council or the entire group.
Section One - Adding Capital
To upkeep the funds in the Medina Investment Collaboration Association there will be two means of raising funds, through membership fees and fundraising. 
Subpoint (A) Membership Fees
Stated in Article IV, section Two, a membership fee is thirty dollars. If a member is unable to accumulate the money, fundraising options will be given on to accepted members.  
Subpoint (B) Fundraising 
In the event that the funds for The Medina` Investment Collaboration Association reach a critically low level, fundraising will be initiated. Options for fundraising will be decided by the general group by vote. Fundraising events will be counted as meetings, so attendance rules apply. 
Section Two - Extracting Capital
Funds should only be extracted for the following reasons

Stocks
Stock Fees
Publicity
	`	
The Treasurer can decide on any other circumstances in which funds can be extracted, but it must be approved by the group.

Article VI - Advisor
	Section One - Selection of an Advisor
The selection of an advisor will be at the discretion of the council. A prospective advisor is recommended to have ties with most of the councils members, as they will be acting with the council the most. 

Article VII - Amending the Constitution
Amendments to the constitution will be voted upon by the council. Items may be raised by general members, and discussed by general members. Yet final say will be given to the council. 
 

  
